

	Article - Submitting and Reviewing yo...



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Account and Identity Management
Submitting and Reviewing your Vaccine Documentation
Submitting and Reviewing your Vaccine Documentation
To submit or review your University vaccine documentation, please visit the employee Self Service site. From here, one may submit their vaccine and booster documentation, or apply for an accommodation. To begin,
Navigate to
https://selfservehc.ou.edu
Log in using your campus user ID and password.
Click on the Submit/Review Vaccine Info button.
From this screen one may:
Submit Vaccine Information - Submit vaccine or booster documentation, or apply for an accommodation.
Update Vaccine Information - Edit a saved request that has yet to be submitted for approval.
View Vaccine Information - View any saved, submitted or withdrawn requests.
Submit Vaccine Information
Under Submit Vaccine Information, the system will automatically populate many fields with your account information. Any fields with a * notation are required. While actively working on the page, one may click the Save button to save the current state of any information one has provided. Clicking Submit will submit your provided information for approval. Clicking Withdraw will cancel your request and withdraw the pending information. On this page you may submit your information to designate that:
I am Vaccinated - Submit your initial vaccine information and documentation.
I am Vaccinated and Boosted - Submit your initial vaccine and booster information, or add your booster information to previously submitted vaccine information.
I Request an Accommodation - Request a medical or religious accommodation.
I am Vaccinated
By selecting "I am Vaccinated", one will be required to provide the name for the vaccine and your dosage date(s). You may also optionally provide the vaccine lot number and health or clinic site that performed the vaccination.
Additionally one will be required to identify the Vaccine Documentation Type and upload your records documenting the vaccination.
Next one will need to Acknowledge that all the provided information is true and accurate.
One may now choose to either:
Click Save, which will not submit the information. This allows one to review the currently entered information and change any needed fields before submission. One will need to use the "Update Vaccine Information" for this entry at a later date or locate the request using the "View Vaccine Information" option to submit the information for approval.
Click Submit, which will immediately submit the provided information to the university.
I am Vaccinated and Boosted
If you have previously submitted your "I am Vaccinated" documentation and are now boosted, or if you have been vaccinated and boosted and are submitting your documentation for the first time, one may choose the "I am Vaccinated and Boosted" option.
In addition to the Vaccine Information and Documentation fields outlined in the above section, one will now also have a Booster Information section.
One will be required to provide the required information about the booster(s). Clicking the
Insert a Row +
button will allow one to enter the information for any additional boosters received.
Next one will need to Acknowledge that all the provided information is true and accurate.
One may now choose to either:
Click Save, which will not submit the information. This allows one to review the currently entered information and change any needed fields before submission. One will need to use the "Update Vaccine Information" for this entry at a later today to submit the information for approval.
Click Submit, which will immediately submit the provided information to the university.
I Request an Accommodation
If one needs to request an accommodation, they may select the "I Request an Accommodation" option.
The individual will be asked to specify the Type of Accommodation.
By selecting Medical Accommodation, one will need to provide documentation of their disability
By selecting Religious Accommodation, one is asked to explain the reasons for their requested accommodation.
Next they will need to provide their contact Employee Phone number.
Next one will need to Acknowledge that all the provided information is true and accurate.
One may now choose to either:
Click Save, which will not submit the information. This allows one to review the currently entered information and change any needed fields before submission. One will need to use the "Update Vaccine Information" for this entry at a later today to submit the information for approval.
Click Submit, which will immediately submit the provided information to the university.
Update Vaccine Information
Selecting Update Vaccine Information will allow one to Search for and edit any current active requests which you have Saved but not Submitted. Once you have found and selected the Saved entry, you may update as need and then either Withdraw the request so that it is cancelled, or you may Submit the request for approval.
View Vaccine Information
Selecting View Vaccine Information will allow one to Search for all previously Saved, Submitted or Withdrawn requests.
Sign in to leave feedback
0 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
2845
Created
Thu 5/12/22 2:36 PM
Modified
Wed 5/18/22 3:34 PM
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2845&SIDs=2414">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2845&SIDs=2414</a><br /><br />Submitting and Reviewing your Vaccine Documentation
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology