
  Forgetting a Wireless Network


Sometimes during wireless usage, your computer or device may have trouble using or reconnecting to a saved wireless connection such as WIFI@OU. You may wish to remove the network, and then re-add it.

From the home screen, choose Settings.

In the settings menu, choose Wi-Fi.

Locate the network in question and tap or press and hold it.

Choose Forget.

If you wish to re-add the network, return to the list of available networks and select to connect to the network in question.

 

Click the wifi symbol at the top of your screen, and select Open Network Preferences.

In the lower-right corner, choose Advanced.

Under Preferred Networks select the network you wish your computer to forget.

Click the minus (-) button to forget.

Click OK.

If you wish to re-add the network, return to the list of available networks and select to connect to the network in question.

 

From the home screen, choose Settings.

In the settings menu, choose Wi-Fi.

Locate the network you wish for your device to forget and click the blue symbol next to the name.

If the option to forget the network is available, tap Forget this Network. If you do not see the option to forget the network:

From the home screen, choose Settings.

In the settings menu, choose General.

Locate Profile and tap on it.

Select the profile for the network.

Tap on delete profile.

If you wish to re-add the network, return to the list of available networks and select to connect to the network in question.

 

Click the Network icon on the lower right corner of your screen.

Choose Network & Internet settings.

Click on Wi-Fi in the left menu.

Under Manage known networks, select the network in question.

Then click the Forget button.

If you wish to re-add the network, return to the list of available networks and select to connect to the network in question.

 

Check Alerts (https://alerts.ou.edu/) Subscribe (https://alerts.ou.edu/subscribers/new)

Contact Us (https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/30/Unified/Requests/TicketRequests/NewForm?ID=Fj69Te7J3ww_)

