
  Passcodes for Zoom Meetings


Passcodes are required and automatically generated for all Zoom meetings. Users may change the auto-generated passcode, but it must be 8-10 characters.

 

Open the Zoom application and click “Schedule”.

On the Schedule Meeting menu, under Security, an 8-character passcode is generated automatically.

You may use the auto-generated passcode, or create your own. Every passcode must be 8-10 characters in length.



Open the Zoom application and click “New Meeting”.

A passcode will automatically be generated.

This passcode cannot be changed.

To see the passcode and invite link click on the green check mark on the top left corner of the meeting screen. 



Click “Meetings” at the top of the application.

Select the meeting that you would like to change the passcode for, and click “Edit”.

Under Security, change the passcode if you wish, keeping in mind the 8-character requirement.



 



 

Go to “oklahoma.zoom.us” in your browser.

Click "sign in"

Sign in with your OUNetID and password.

Click “Meetings” on the right side of the page.

Click on “Schedule” on the upper right side of the page. 

On the Schedule Meeting menu, under Security, an 8-character passcode is generated automatically. 

You may use the auto-generated passcode or create your own – keeping in mind the 8-character requirement. 



Select “Meetings” on the left side of the application, then “Upcoming”.

Click “Edit” for the meeting that you would like to change the password.

You may use the auto-generated passcode, or create your own – keeping in mind the 8-character requirement.



Select “Settings” on the left side of the application.

The auto-generated passcodes may be changed under the following settings:
	
Require a passcode when scheduling new meetings
Require a passcode for Personal Meeting ID (PMI)



Require a passcode when scheduling new meetings

Require a passcode for Personal Meeting ID (PMI)



 

Check Alerts (https://alerts.ou.edu/) Subscribe (https://alerts.ou.edu/subscribers/new)

Contact Us (https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/30/Unified/Requests/TicketRequests/NewForm?ID=Fj69Te7J3ww_)

