

	Article - Services for Former Account...



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Account and Identity Management
Services for Former Account Holders
Services for Former Account Holders
Different types of OU accounts expire after different amounts of time, per OU’s account expiration policy. For information about specific types of accounts and their expiration dates, please see the
Account Expiration Policy
article.
The list below includes instructions on how former account holders may be able to continue to utilize some services that were available to them while affiliated with OU.
Resources For Former OU Account Holders
Bursar Payments
Former students who have been logging into ONE with their OUNetID to make Bursar payments will lose that ability. To continue making payments online, these individuals will need to set themselves up as an “authorized user” using a non-OU email address.
This must be done prior to deletion of the OUNetID.
For instructions on setting up an authorized user, please see
this
article
. Payments may also be made in person with check, cashier's check, or money order at the Student Financial Center dropbox in Buchanan Hall.
LinkedIn Learning Access
LinkedIn Learning is licensed for current OU faculty, staff and students only. Depending on one's current location and local offerings, one may be able to continue to utilize these services in a different format.
Some of the Lynda.com and LinkedIn content is available through many public library systems. Norman Public Library does not provide access to the content, but the OKC Metropolitan Library System (MLS) does. More information is located
here
. MLS offers a reciprocal library card to users who live or work in a few surrounding counties, including Cleveland County. More information about reciprocal accounts can be found at the
MLS site
.
Research Databases Access
OU's Research Databases are licensed for current OU faculty, staff and students only. Depending on the user's current location and local offerings, they may be able to continue to utilize these services in a different format.
To access research databases, Bizzell will issue temporary guest IDs for users to access databases while in the library. Unfortunately, remote access is not available. A list of the OU Library System alumni offerings can be found
here
.
A list of available databases offered through the Metropolitan Library System is located
here
. Other local libraries (including the Pioneer Library System in Norman) may also have access to some databases.
Handshake Access
Handshake is a career management platform that connects one to relevant job opportunities based on their profile, interests, and search activity. Any alumnus of the University of Oklahoma must have an alumni.ou.edu email address to create/reactivate a Handshake account.
Instructions for setting up your new email account can be found here
. Once you have your new email address, please email
oucs@ou.edu
with your new email address and request to have your Handshake account reinstated. Please provide the year you graduated as well as the first and last name you had while a student at OU. If you remember your student ID or OU OUNetID, that is helpful as well. If you have never used Handshake before, please follow the instructions
here
to create an account. Questions about this process should be directed to Career Services.
OU Create Access
OU Create allows current OU faculty, staff, and students a platform for creating a personal website. To access this content, the individual must be an active OUNetID account holder. If one is no longer an account holder and needs to access their content, they should contact
create@ou.edu
and request assistance with retrieving their website data.
Service Alerts
Check Alerts
Subscribe
Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact Us
Sign in to leave feedback
0 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
279
Created
Sun 9/6/20 3:49 PM
Modified
Fri 12/9/22 10:03 AM
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=279&SIDs=392">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=279&SIDs=392</a><br /><br />Services for Former Account Holders
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology