
  Alumni Email Setup


Alumni Email Setup

Log in to your alumni account through www.office.com (http://www.office.com/). To log in, you’ll enter the email address and temporary password provided to you when you requested your alumni email address.




 

The first time you log in, you will be prompted to set a new password and provide at least one authentication method.

Enter your temporary password and confirm a new one.


Once you click “Sign in”, you will see the following prompt:


Click “Next” to continue.

You will need to set an Authentication Phone or Email in order to complete the set-up process for your alumni email account. Please choose a method that you expect to have access to for the foreseeable future, as the number/email you select is what will be used to reset your password if you forget it.



To set an Authentication Phone or Email, click the appropriate “Set it up now” link.

To set an Authentication Phone, choose your country or region, enter your phone number, and click “Text Me” or “Call Me”.



If you choose the phone call, an automated message will play when you answer the phone and ask you to press a key on the phone to finish.

If you choose the text, a six-digit code will be sent to your phone. Enter it to verify.


To set up an Authentication Email, enter a valid email address to which you have access. Click email me. We do not recommend using you current @ou.edu address (if you have one); you should use another email account to which you expect to have uninterrupted access.


Locate the email from Microsoft and then enter the six-digit code provided within it. Click “Verify”.


Only one authentication method is required, but OU IT recommends configuring both options.

Once you have set up your Authentication Phone and/or Authentication Email, click “Finish” to log in to your account.



 

Updating Authentication Phone or Email

Log into Outlook.com using your alumni email address.

Open the Account Manager. This should be the icon in the top right of Outlook, with your initials or a profile picture.

Click "View Account" from the dropdown.

Find the box that says "Security Info", and select "Update Info".

You may add new authentication options by clicking "+ Add Method", deleting existing options by choosing "Delete", or modifying the existing options.

 

Check Alerts (https://alerts.ou.edu/) Subscribe (https://alerts.ou.edu/subscribers/new)

Contact Us (https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/30/Unified/Requests/TicketRequests/NewForm?ID=Fj69Te7J3ww_)

