

	Article - Qualtrics – Viewing, Analyz...



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Research
Qualtrics – Viewing, Analyzing, and Presenting Your Data
Qualtrics – Viewing, Analyzing, and Presenting Your Data
Built in Data and Analysis Tools
Qualtrics has built-in tools to assist with analyzing and presenting your data. Below are selected resources on these tools.
Viewing Your Data
Your data can be viewed in the
Data and Analytics
tab. Within this section, you can view the
Data section
. By default, only a few of your questions will be included in this view. The questions that are visible can be adjusted by
choosing Columns
. This data can also be
filtered
to show a subset of your data.
Responses in Progress
Responses in Progress
occur when a respondent starts the survey but does not complete and submit it. Responses in Progress are grouped separately from
Recorded Responses
in the Data section. Click on Responses in Progress or Recorded Responses to reveal a drop down menu with options to switch between the two views.
In managing your data, you may wish to
close
or
delete
Responses in Progress, depending on the situation.
Exporting Your Data Set
If you wish to
export your data set
, you can do this in the Data and Analytics tab in the Data section. A variety of file formats are available.
When exporting data, there will be multiple options to choose to customize your export. To download the entirety of your data set, leave the box
Download all fields
checked. To download only the data fields currently visible in the Data section, uncheck the box. Using this method, it is possible to build a subset of the data set in the Data section using filters and by hiding or showing certain fields, and then export the subset.
Exporting Individual Responses
It is also possible to export individual responses. Individual responses must be exported one at a time. If you need to download data in bulk,
export your data set
instead.
To download a PDF of an individual response:
Navigate to Data and Analytics. Make sure you are in the Data tab.
The right most column of the data set never changes. It has a gear icon at the top or the column, and three dot menus in each row. Find the row for the response you wish to export, then click the corresponding three dot menu.
A drop down menu will appear. This will include the option to export to PDF. You can choose to name the file if you would like and set some basic formatting before downloading.
Stats IQ
Stats IQ
is a built-in statistical analysis tool. OU's subscription level includes the describe, relate, regression, cluster, and pivot table tools.The benefit of using Stats IQ over an external tool is that it is simple to
update your statistical analyses with new survey responses
.
Crosstabs
Crosstabs
is another built-in statistical analysis tool, specifically designed to handle multivariate analysis. Like Stats IQ,
new responses can be incorporated seamlessly
with just a few clicks.
Analyzing Text
The
Text IQ
feature can assist with sorting text responses to allow you to review them more effectively. OU currently has the
Basic
level subscription.
Results Dashboard and Advanced Reports
The Results Dashboard
is designed to rapidly create visualizations based on your data. A default page of visualizations is automatically created as a starting point, but it is customizable. If you do not see any options to make changes, click the pencil icon in the upper right to enter editing mode. Both individual widgets and the full report can be downloaded as PDF or JPG files, making this tool helpful for generating images to insert into other publications. It can also be used to set up a recurring email that automatically sends an up-to-date copy of the report to stakeholders - but keep in mind that formatting options for the visualizations are limited.
The Advanced Reports tool offers many of the same features, but has far more customization and formatting options as well as the ability to pull in data from other projects. An Advanced Report is built from scratch by the user and can be designed as a standalone report if desired, with the ability to add text boxes, titles, and more. It can also be used to set up a recurring email that automatically sends an up-to-date copy of the report to stakeholders. Advanced Reports
can be shared multiple ways
, from downloading the content as a PowerPoint to creating a publicly accessible viewing link.
Service Alerts
Check Alerts
Subscribe
Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact Us
Sign in to leave feedback
0 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
2512
Created
Thu 8/5/21 10:55 AM
Modified
Tue 9/20/22 1:21 PM
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2512&SIDs=1671">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2512&SIDs=1671</a><br /><br />Qualtrics – Viewing, Analyzing, and Presenting Your Data
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology