

	Article - PingID Authentication for i...



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Information Security
PingID Authentication for iPhone (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
PingID Authentication for iPhone (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
PingID
enables you to use your smartphone to sign on to your company services and applications, with the added security of multifactor authentication. Before you can use your smartphone to authenticate, you have to pair (connect) it to PingID.
If you attempt to log in to an OU application configured for PingID and have not yet paired a device, when you log in, you'll see the PingID welcome screen showing you instructions on how to pair your device. You will not be able to gain access those resources until you do so.
Once your smartphone is paired, you'll be able to authenticate using your smartphone. Once authenticated, you'll be redirected to the resource you were trying to access. Please note you will need to keep the PingID app installed on your phone if you choose this method, as app based authentication prompts will appear in this application. If you have accidentally uninstalled the app and no longer have the ability to authenticate, please see this
article
.
Set up your iPhone device for PingID authentication
Setting up PingID to authenticate using your smartphone typically involves the following steps:
Download PingID from your app store.
Pair your device. Pairing a device creates a trust between your device and your account.
Note
: Setting up PingID may vary slightly depending on the device model you are using, and the screens you see may vary from the ones shown below.
Note
: For authentication by fingerprint, you'll need to set up fingerprint recognition on your device.
Log in to
PingID enrollment site
with your OU username and password. You'll see the PingID welcome screen.
After the system gives a tour of the site, click your name in the upper right corner.
Click the
+Add
button.
You will now be prompted to set up your authentication method. By default, PingID for Mobile will prompt to install. Follow the onscreen prompts to download the app from the iPhone Add store.
Download and install the PingID app using one of the following options:
From iPhone App Store:
On your smartphone, open the Apple Store, search for PingID, and tap Install.
Using the Apple Store link:
On the PingID +Add screen screen, click the Apple store site "Available for iPhone & iPad" button, install the app remotely on your iPhone or iPad.
Once installed, continue following onscreen prompts. Your pairing key and QR code are displayed on your web browser to pair your account with your application. On your smartphone, tap
Open
. The PingID mobile app opens.
The first time you access PingID mobile app, you'll be asked to accept the terms of service. Tap
Accept
.
You'll also need to enable push notifications and location for PingID. Tap the "I Understand" button and then accept all PingID permission requests when prompted to do so (tap Allow and OK).
From the PingID app on your device, point your device at the QR code on your browser to scan it.
If you are unable to scan the QR code, on your smartphone tap
Enter Pairing Key Manually
and enter the pairing key as shown on the registration page.
You'll see a green checkmark indicating the pairing request is successfully, and the
Complete Your Profile
page opens automatically.
Enter a nickname for your profile, optionally add a picture, and then tap
Done
.
You'll see the PingID app screen showing the one-time passcode number and your organization name in the organization list.
An authentication request is generated immediately. To complete the pairing process, authenticate using your smartphone.
Once you are authenticated, you'll see a green checkmark confirming authentication. Your device will now be configured to authenticate with PingID. Simply launch the app the next time you need to log in to an OU website to begin your authentication. See below for supported authentication methods.
Authenticate using your iPhone
You can authenticate using the following options:
Swipe authentication for iPhone
Fingerprint authentication for iPhone
Authenticate using a one-time passcode
Authenticate using your Apple watch
Swipe authentication for iPhone
If you have the PingID app running on your smartphone, when logging in to your resources, you'll be prompted to swipe to authenticate.
Log in to your account, or access the site that requires authentication. You'll see the
Authenticating
screen, and an authentication notification request is sent to your device.
If your device is unlocked, tap the notification and swipe to authenticate. If your device is locked, do one of the following (depending on your notification settings). Either:
The swipe screen appears: Swipe to authenticate.
A notification is shown on the lock screen. Swipe left, unlock the screen, and then swipe to authenticate.
You'll see the green checkmark indicating authentication is successful and your access is approved.
Fingerprint authentication for iPhone
You'll need to register your fingerprints on your device and then set up your iPhone for PingID authentication using the instructions above.
Fingerprint authentication is simple using a smartphone. Authentication varies slightly depending on your phone model, phone settings, and whether your device is locked or unlocked when the authentication request is sent.
Log in to your account, or access the application that requires authentication. You'll see the
Authenticating
screen, and an authentication notification request is sent to your device.
Do one of the following (depending on your notification settings).
If your phone is unlocked, tap the notification banner, or tap Approve.
If your phone is locked, slide the message to the left and then tap Approve, or, if you do not have the slide to view option, swipe right to unlock the device.
The fingerprint scan is activated and the Touch ID screen appears on your device prompting you to scan your fingerprint.
Scan your fingerprint. You'll see the green checkmark indicating authentication is successful and your access is approved.
Authenticate using a one-time passcode
If you don't have internet access temporarily, you can still authenticate using PingID mobile app by generating a one- time passcode (OTP). The one-time passcode is unique, and can only be used once. Only the one-time passcode that appears on your device at the time that you log in to your account is valid for authentication.
Login to your account or app. You'll be prompted to enter a one-time passcode.
On your device, open the PingID mobile app and enter the one-time passcode into the one-time passcode field on the authentication screen and press Enter.
Note
: The one-time passcode refreshes each time you open the PingID app. To generate a new one-time passcode, tap
New Passcode
.
Authenticate using your Apple watch
If you have an Apple Watch paired with your iPhone, the PingID app automatically presents the
Approve
or
Deny
authentication notification on the Apple Watch, in parallel with your iPhone, so you can authenticate without taking your iPhone out of your pocket.
Note
: You do not need to install the PingID app on your Apple watch to start receiving notifications. However, if you do install the app on your watch, you will also be able to access one-time passcode (OTP) from your Apple watch PingID app.
Log in to your account, or access the application that requires authentication. If your smartphone is inactive and your Apple Watch is on your wrist, a notification appears on your Apple Watch as well as your smartphone.
Swipe up to view the message and tap
Approve
. You'll see the green checkmark on your web browser, indicating authentication is successful and your access is approved.
Enable/Disable passcodes on your Apple watch
If you have installed the PingID app on your device, the PingID Apple Watch app is automatically installed on your watch and you will start receiving notifications to your watch. You can also open the PingID app on your watch to receive a one-time passcode (OTP). If the Apple watch app is disabled, you will not be able to access a one-time passcode from your watch.
Note
: The Apple watch only receives notification when the device is locked and the device screen is in sleep mode.
On your iPhone tap the Watch app, and then tap
PingID
.
Tap
Show App on Apple Watch
to enable/disable the app on your Apple watch. The PingID app is installed on your Apple watch and the PingID icon appears.
On your Apple watch, tap the PingID icon to view the current one-time passcode.
Tap
Refresh
to get a new passcode, if required.
Service Alerts
Check Alerts
Subscribe
Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact Us
Sign in to leave feedback
0 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
2535
Created
Thu 9/9/21 2:05 PM
Modified
Mon 9/19/22 12:49 PM
Related Articles (2)
PingID Enrollment
PingID Multi-Factor Information
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2535&SIDs=1698">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2535&SIDs=1698</a><br /><br />PingID Authentication for iPhone (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology