

	Article - PingID Enrollment



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Information Security
PingID Enrollment
PingID Enrollment
PingID enrollment configures your method of authentication into OU systems and applications. When one tries to log in to certain OU systems and applications, this authentication method you configured will be asked if this is a legitimate log in. You will then approve or deny the log in request. Please note you do not need to set up PingID on every device you use. You just need to set up a primary and backup authentication method. OU encourages users to set up two methods of authentication, on a primary device which you will always have on hand, such as your phone, as well as a backup device such as your desktop computer in case you lose or change your primary device.
To enroll your mobile device for usage with PingID, we recommend the following (we've included a detailed PDF at the right of this article in the Attachments section):
Enroll your primary phone with push authentication. You may alternately also configure the phone number to receive calls and text approval codes.
Set up a secondary backup authentication method in case you do not have access to the first method.
Enrolling your Phone
Navigate to the
PingID site
.
Upon first log in, you will be prompted with a greeting and the My Devices screen.
To add your device, click the
+ Add
button.
You will have two options, to download the PingID app for
iPhone & iPad
as well as the download for
Android
.
Search your device's app store for PingID and install it.
After install, launch the app.
Once installed, continue following onscreen prompts. Your pairing key and QR code are displayed in your web browser window from step 1 to pair your PingID account with your application.
On your device, tap Open. The PingID mobile app opens.
The first time you access PingID mobile app, you'll be asked to accept the terms of service. Tap Accept.
You'll also need to enable push notifications and location for PingID. Tap the "I Understand" button and then accept all PingID permission requests when prompted to do so (tap Allow and OK).
From the PingID app on your device, point your device at the QR code on your browser to scan it.
If you are unable to scan the QR code, on your device tap Enter Pairing Key Manually and enter the pairing key as shown on the registration page.
Enter a nickname for your profile, optionally add a picture, and then tap Done.
You'll see a green checkmark indicating the pairing request is successful. You may now need to hit X to exit.
You'll see the PingID app screen showing the one-time passcode number and your organization name in the organization list. Setup is now complete. Please note you will need to keep the PingID app installed on your phone, as app based authentication prompts will appear in this application.
With the app configured, you may also wish to configure the phone to receive call or text prompts to your phone number. Simply return to the
PingID site
and click the
+Add
button again and choose SMS or Voice and follow the on screen prompts.
Using PingID
Now when you try to sign in to a PingID enabled OU website or application, an authentication request will be sent to your device for your approval.
If the needed approval prompt is not received, one may use the one time passcode being provided by the app instead to complete your log in.
Once you are authenticated, you'll see a green checkmark confirming success, and you will be directed to the OU service or application that you wanted to access.
Setting up a Backup Device
Setting up a backup will ensure that even if you lose your phone, you will still have another activation method to get access to the site/app in question. This also ensures you can add or change your primary phone device if lost or changed.
Navigate to our article on the
PingID for desktop
app.
Follow the steps listed for your device, either Windows or Mac.
Enrolling Other Devices - PingID Authentication Options
PingID offers multiple authentication options, including for your phone via the app, SMS text or voice. Via the Desktop app, or an attached security key. To add these additional options, simple visit the
enrollment page
and hit the Add+ button to see the other available methods.
Phone/Tablet:
PingID Authentication for iPhone (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
PingID Authentication for Android (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
PingID Authentication for SMS/Voice
Additionally, one may choose choose the "Authenticator" option under Add+ to add PingID authentication to your existing Google Authenticator or Microsoft Authenticator apps. Please note that after scanning your QR code, you should also verify your authenticator by hitting Next in your browser and then entering the passcode displayed in your app.
Windows/Mac Desktop App:
PingID Authentication for Desktop App
Security Key:
PingID Authentication for YubiKey
Using PingID with Multiple Accounts
If you have more than one OU account that is required to use PingID, you will need to follow these enrollment steps for each different account. For each enrollment process, you should visit the
PingID site
using a private/incognito browser, log in using that second account and then complete the needed enrollment.
PingID Support and Help
If you need additional assistance installing or setting up PingID or if you have set up PingID in the past and are now having issues with the app on your device, please feel free to stop by one of our service centers (
Norman
|
Oklahoma City
|
Tulsa
) or contact us
via phone
.
Service Alerts
Check Alerts
Subscribe
Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact Us
Sign in to leave feedback
100% helpful - 2 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
2543
Created
Mon 9/20/21 2:15 PM
Modified
Mon 9/26/22 8:07 AM
Related Articles (8)
Outlook Prompt for PingID Setup
PingID Authentication for Android (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
PingID Authentication for Desktop App (Windows, Mac)
PingID Authentication for iPhone (Swipe, Fingerprint, One-Time Passcode)
PingID Authentication for Voice and SMS Text Messages
PingID Authentication for YubiKey
PingID FAQ
PingID Multi-Factor Information
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2543&SIDs=1701">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2543&SIDs=1701</a><br /><br />PingID Enrollment
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology