

	Article - PingID Authentication for V...



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Information Security
PingID Authentication for Voice and SMS Text Messages
PingID Authentication for Voice and SMS Text Messages
PingID enables you to sign on to your account with the added security of multifactor authentication. Set up SMS (text message) or voice authentication is useful if you won't be using a smartphone that supports the use of the PingID application, do not wish to download an app to your device, or you want to define an additional device/number as a fallback in case you do not have your smartphone with you.
To set up SMS (text message) or voice authentication, you need to pair the phone number with your account. Pairing the phone number creates a trust between your number and your account, so you can use a code sent to that number to authenticate during the login process. Once you have paired your number, each time you log in to your account, or application, you'll receive a one-time passcode (OTP) via SMS or voice call with which to authenticate.
Set up SMS (text message) or voice authentication
Log in to your
Ping ID account
.
Click your account name in the upper right hand corner and select Devices.
Click the
+Add
button.
If you have another device/number set up already, you will be prompted to authenticate your login using your PingID.
In the
Add a New Device
pop up, select
SMS
or
Voice
Enter your phone number and then click
Next
.
A one-time passcode (OTP) is sent to your mobile via SMS (text message) or voice call.
Enter the passcode into the
Authentication
screen field, and then click
Verify
.
When successfully verified, your phone number will be listed under your Device list.
Next time you try to log in to your account or an application, an OTP (one time passcode) will be sent to your phone (text or voice call, depending on what you set up) and you are prompted to enter it in your browser. Enter the OTP in the
Authentication
window in your browser and click
Sign On
to complete the authentication.
Authenticate using an SMS or voice passcode
If you have set up authentication by SMS or voice, when you attempt to log in to your account or app you will be sent a passcode with which to authenticate.
Log in to your account, or access an application that requires authentication. You'll see the Authenticating screen. You'll receive an SMS passcode, or you'll receive a voice message with the passcode.
In the
Authenticating
screen, enter the passcode and click
Sign On
.
If you didn't receive a passcode by SMS or voice call, click
Resend Passcode
.
You'll see the green checkmark indicating authentication is successful and your access is approved.
Unpair SMS or voice authentication
If you no longer want to use your number to authenticate using PingID, you'll need to unpair it. For SMS or voice authentication, you can do this from your account portal
My Devices
page.
Note
: If you are unable to log in to your PingID account for any reason, you'll need to contact the OU IT Service Desk for help unpairing the number.
Log in to your
Ping ID account
.
Click your account name in the upper right hand corner and select Devices.
Click menu icon on the phone number in question to expand the entry of the number you want to delete, and then click the trash can icon. You'll be prompted to confirm your request.
If you only have one device or authentication method paired with your account, next time you log on you will be prompted to register a device in order to access your account.
Service Alerts
Check Alerts
Subscribe
Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact Us
Sign in to leave feedback
0 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
2537
Created
Thu 9/9/21 4:23 PM
Modified
Wed 11/9/22 3:49 PM
Related Articles (2)
PingID Enrollment
PingID Multi-Factor Information
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2537&SIDs=1705">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=2537&SIDs=1705</a><br /><br />PingID Authentication for Voice and SMS Text Messages
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology