

	Article - Safe Exam Browser



Updating...
OU Homepage
Search OU
OU Social Media
The University of Oklahoma
Skip to main content
Filter your search by category. Current category:
All
All
Knowledge Base
Service Catalog
Search the client portal
Search
Sign In
Show Applications Menu
Norman - Client Portal
Sign In
Search
Home
Services
Knowledge Base
More Applications
Skip to Knowledge Base content
Search
Articles
Knowledge Base
Academic Technology
Safe Exam Browser
Safe Exam Browser
CONCEPT
Safe Exam Browser (SEB) is a web browser environment used to safely carry out e-assessments. It turns any computer into a temporary, secure workstation. It controls access to resources like system functions, other websites and applications, and prevents unauthorized resources being used during an exam.
GENERAL CONCEPT
SEB runs on a local computer and is connected via the internet to a learning management system (LMS) or an e-assessment system. Generally SEB works with any web based LMS and other kinds of web based exam systems. Some learning management systems (LMS) like for example Moodle, ILIAS, OpenOLAT and exam solutions as Inspera Assessment offer a quiz mode specifically compatible with SEB.
SEB FOR WINDOWS
Safe Exam Browser for Windows consists of the SEB kiosk application, which opens an own Windows desktop and blocks system commands like keyboard shortcuts (for example ALT+F4) and right mouse button clicks. The second part is Firefox, running in a so-called XUL runtime mode. The SEB XUL browser application running on Firefox connects to the LMS, using a pre-configured start URL. The SEB browser doesn’t contain a URL or search field and navigation controls (back/forward, reload) can be disabledx.
SEB FOR MACOS AND IOS
In contrast to the Windows version, Safe Exam Browser for macOS and iOS is a monolithic application using a web browser framework instead of a browser runtime. It’s using the
WebKit
engine, on which Safari and some open source browsers are based. Otherwise, SEB for macOS/iOS connect to the Learning Management Systems in the same way as the Windows version.
CONFIGURATION
Safe Exam Browser enables secure exams on unmanaged computers like students’ own laptops and tablets as well as in managed environments on all three platforms Windows, macOS and iOS. Starting version 2.0, SEB offers an individual configuration per exam, which is protected by a strong encryption against manipulation. Thanks to an elaborate authentication feature, the exam system can verify that a particular, unaltered SEB version and the correct exam settings are used for an examination. This facilitates secure exams especially on unmanaged computers like students’ own laptops/tablets.
Safe Exam Browser 2.0 and later is a unified version which brings almost the same features, exam system interface, compatible configuration files and a very similar user interface onto all three platforms, while still taking in account operating system differences and unique platform specific features.
FEATURES
General Features
Managed web browser, which can be configured using encrypted configuration files
Using special hyperlinks, SEB can be started from other web browsers and reconfigured individually per exam
Fullscreen mode or multiple browser windows which can be resized (without any navigation elements), browser tabs on iPad
VM detector: SEB detects whether it is running on a virtual machine or a jailbreaked device and can refuse to start up
URL filter to allow accessing only specific web sites, pages or resources
Certificate pinning to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks on the connection to exam servers
Spell checking and dictionary lookup is disabled, can optionally be allowed
Built-in connection to Moodle, ILIAS, OpenOLAT, Inspera Assessment and others, can be used with basically any web-based examination system
SEB for Windows
Disabled actions (in default settings):
Windows Task Bar and the Start Menu
Switch to other applications invoked by Alt+Tab or Windows+Tab (unless permitted)
Menu options on the Windows Security Screen invoked with Ctrl+Alt+Delete are removed while SEB is running
Display and system idle sleep
Print Screen and some other keyboard shortcuts like ALT+F4
VMware shade (toolbar) when using VMware Horizon View Client for VDI
Process monitoring hides or terminates not allowed processes while SEB is running
Separate configuration tool with graphical user interface
Third party applications can be allowed to run together with SEB, they can be started or switched to with icons in a SEB taskbar or the Alt+Tab shortcut
Configurable spell checking dictionaries
Additional resources like web pages or whole sites, HTML and PDF documents, even full web applications can be used in exams
SEB for macOS
Disabled actions:
Quit SEB (can be disabled or protected by a quit password)
macOS Dock and Menu bar
Switch to other applications with process switcher (cmd+Tab/cmd+Shift+Tab)
Force Quit window (cmd+opt+Esc)
Normal reboot (ctrl+cmd+eject) and shutdown (ctrl+opt+cmd+eject)
Hiding the application or minimizing the window, printing and Exposé
Right-click (context menu)
Optionally hyperlinks requesting to be opened in a new window, optionally only such directing to another server than the one of the current host
Display and system idle sleep
Context menu options in Flash fullscreen video players
macOS screen capture
Preferences window for easy set up, can be protected with an administrator password.
Teach mode to easily create URL filter rules for restricting access to particular web sites/pages/resources.
Third party applications can be allowed to run together with SEB, but only in an accordingly configured macOS user account
TECHNICAL DETAILS
SEB for Windows
Supported operating systems:
Microsoft Windows 7
Windows 8/8.1
Window 10
License: Mozilla Public License (MPL)
Browser engine: Mozilla Gecko, which is used in Firefox (until Firefox 56).
Programming languages and frameworks:
C# (.NET)
JavaScript
Mozilla XULRunner/Firefox
SEB for macOS
Supported operating systems:
macOS 10.14 Mojave
macOS 10.13 High Sierra
macOS 10.12 Sierra
OS X 10.11 El Capitan
On these older OS versions, modern web pages might not be rendered correctly:
OS X 10.10 Yosemite
OS X 10.9 Mavericks
OS X 10.8 Mountain Lion (only supported as client, preferences window not available, TLS/SSL/CA certificate embedding into SEB configuration files and certificate pinning not supported)
OS X 10.7 Lion (only supported as client, preferences window not available. TLS/SSL/CA certificate embedding into SEB configuration files and certificate pinning not supported)
Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard (only supported up to SEB 1.5.2)
License: Mozilla Public License (MPL)
Browser engine: WebKit (as Safari). SEB uses the WebKit version installed on the system (WebKit version depends on macOS version).
Programming language and system framework: Objective-C (Cocoa)
SEB for iOS
Operating systems:
iOS 12
iOS 11
iOS 10
iOS 9.3.5
License: Mozilla Public License (MPL)
Browser engine: WebKit (as Safari). SEB uses the WebKit version installed on the system (WebKit version depends on iOS version). Currently UIWebView is used.
Programming language: Objective-C
LICENSE
Safe Exam Browser is released as freeware. The
source code
is subject to the
Mozilla Public License Version 1.1
(the “License”); you may only use these files in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/
.
READ MORE ABOUT SAFE EXAM BROWSER
HERE
.
Service Alerts
Check Alerts
Subscribe
Can't find what you're looking for?
Contact Us
Sign in to leave feedback
0 reviews
Blank
Blank
Blank
Details
Article ID:
402
Created
Wed 9/9/20 4:00 PM
Modified
Wed 9/9/20 4:01 PM
Deleting...
×
Share
Recipient(s)
- separate email addresses with a comma
Message
Press Alt + 0 within the editor to access accessibility instructions, or press Alt + F10 to access the menu.
Check out this article I found in the Norman - Client Portal knowledge base.<br /><br /><a href="https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=402&SIDs=538">https://itsupport.ou.edu/TDClient/35/Norman/KB/ArticleDet?ID=402&SIDs=538</a><br /><br />Safe Exam Browser
Send
Close
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU
                                                    Job Search
Policies
Legal
                                                    Notices
Copyright
Resources
                                                    & Offices
OU
                                                    Report It!
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
OU
                                                Social Media
                                                Directory
Updated by
OU Information Technology