The University of Oklahoma

Skip Navigation
The University of Oklahoma
Search:
search
Toggle navigation
ABOUT
ADMISSIONS
ACADEMICS
CAMPUS LIFE
RESEARCH
NEWS
ATHLETICS
There's Only One
About OU
Admissions & Aid
Academics
Campus Life
Research
News
Athletics
Resources For
Current Students
Prospective Students
Families & Visitors
Faculty & Staff
Alumni & Friends
The Big Picture
Visit OU
Campus Map (pdf)
University Libraries
Photo Galleries
Calendar & Events
Museums
Good to Know
Office of the President
University Leadership
Colleges & Departments
Diversity & Inclusion
Campus Safety
THERE’S ONLY
ONE
THERE’S GREATNESS AHEAD OF YOU
There's Only One Oklahoma
For over 131 years, the University of Oklahoma continues to stand apart as a beacon of diverse thinking and unbound exploration. By channeling the strengths of the many, here one is empowered to work in any way, become anything, and arrive anywhere.
Begin your journey with the OU Family today.
APPLY
LEARN MORE
See our beautiful campuses in Norman, Tulsa and Oklahoma City.
VISIT
LEARN MORE
Lead On | The University of Oklahoma's Campaign for the Future
GIVE
LEARN MORE
3 Campuses
31,000+ Students
$416.6M Research Expenditures
170+ Academic
Programs
Learn about OK-1 Cancer Drug
Learn about our Multi-National First-Year Class
Learn about Our Championship Team
-
-
-
Endless Possibilities
When you merge tremendous effort with humility, then infuse that with a healthy dose of resilience, the potential to make an impact is limitless.
NEWS
University of Oklahoma Launches Online Degree Completion Program
March 30, 2023
The University of Oklahoma is making it easier for adults with some college credit to finish what they started and complete their bachelor’s degrees. The university’s new Degree Completion Program, offered through OU Online and the OU College of Professional and Continuing Studies, offers flexible and workforce-relevant online undergraduate degree programs designed to help adult learners achieve their educational and career goals. With a generous policy that allows students to transfer up to 90 hours of credit from their previous institution, the program shortens the time and financial commitment needed to earn a degree to as few as 12 months.
Read more
University of Oklahoma Launches Online Degree Completion Program
March 29, 2023
OU Celebrates Day at the Capitol
Read more
Read article: OU Celebrates Day at the Capitol
Read article: OU Celebrates Day at the Capitol
March 21, 2023
OU Elevates Native Nations Center to Enhance Indigenous Research, Tribal Relationships
Read more
Read article: OU Elevates Native Nations Center to Enhance Indigenous Research, Tribal Relationships
Read article: OU Elevates Native Nations Center to Enhance Indigenous Research, Tribal Relationships
February 23, 2023
Dr. Dale Bratzler Named Dean of OU’s Hudson College of Public Health
Read more
Read article: Dr. Dale Bratzler Named Dean of OU’s Hudson College of Public Health
Read article: Dr. Dale Bratzler Named Dean of OU’s Hudson College of Public Health
READ MORE NEWS
Research
The University of Oklahoma is a comprehensive research university, located on three campuses in Norman, Oklahoma City and Tulsa. OU is designated by the Carnegie Foundation as a Highest Research Activity institution, placing it in the highest tier of comprehensive research universities in the nation.
Read More
125+ Countries Represented
400+ Student Organizations
Campus Life & Community
With over 400 organizations and events to explore, it’s an unrivaled chance to expand your world. At the University of Oklahoma, you have innumerable resources, as well as a shared determination of 30,000 others, to find your calling. Our nationally ranked athletics program, while an anchor of the university, is another outstanding facet of a vibrant campus life.
Read More
OUR CAMPUSES
Woven seamlessly, and proudly, into the essence of Oklahoma, each of our campuses are centers of innovation and educational excellence. And what sustains this level of achievement is grit and dogged determination.
Norman
The University of Oklahoma in Norman is the flagship university and research institution for the state of Oklahoma.
Tulsa
The University of Oklahoma-Tulsa offers a wide range of 30+ undergraduate, Master’s, and Doctorate level degrees.
Health Sciences Center
The University of Oklahoma’s Health Sciences Center boasts one of the few comprehensive academic campuses in the nation.
OU Online
OU Online offers high-quality, affordable, professional graduate programs that are committed to maintaining academic excellence.
Oklahoma
The Sooner State is elevated by its populous attitude, where opportunity is supported by a nurturing, spirited, and driven community. In the city of Norman, located 30 minutes south of Oklahoma City, our flagship university flourishes. It’s a vibrant, progressive college town, merged with a diverse, business-forward culture.
VISIT NORMAN
EXPLORE OKC
EXPLORE TULSA
FOLLOW US
The University of Oklahoma
660 Parrington Oval,
Norman, OK 73019-0390
(405) 325-0311
Accessibility
Sustainability
HIPAA
OU Job Search
Policies
Legal Notices
Copyright
Resources and Offices
Accreditation
OU Report It!
Updated 3/31/2023 by
The University of Oklahoma
:
marcomm@ou.edu